BinaryData docs (#102)
superfaceai/docs: docs/comlink/reference/binary_data.mdx

---
slug: /comlink/reference/map/binary_data
displayed_sidebar: referenceSidebar
---

# Binary Data

:::info

To use this feature, you will need OneSDK for NodeJS in version `2.2.0` or higher.

:::

> To use binary data to upload content OneSDK has `BinaryData` class.

Reviewer: Maybe something like "Use `BinaryData` class in OneSDK to upload content by streaming bytes. The following interface is available in Comlink Maps:"

I think this leading sentence is the most important part of this doc as it will tell the user what to expect from `BinaryData`, so we should definitely mention streaming. I think we should also mention that is it both a class in Javascript SDK as well as an interface in Comlink script.

const profile = await client.getProfile('example');

// for files
const result = await profile.getUseCase('Example').perform({
  binary: BinaryData.fromPath(pathToFile, { mimetype: 'text/plain', filename: 'example.txt' });

// or for Readable streams
const stream = getReadableStream();
const result = await profile.getUseCase('Example').perform({
  binary: BinaryData.fromStream(stream);
});
```

## Limitations

### 1. Asynchronous operations on BinaryData

Current limitation for use in Comlink Map is that `peek`, `read` and `getAllData` methods are asynchronous. So, they can't be directly chained with function on [Buffer](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/buffer.html#class-buffer). Most likely `toString()`.

To overcome this limitation, It must be first [set into variable](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/map-spec.html#sec-Set-Variables), so the interpreter resolves the Promise:
```
map Example {
  firstBytes = input.binary.peek(10)
  data = input.binary.read(10)
  remainingData = input.binary.getAllData()

  map result {
    firstBytes = firstBytes
    data = data
   remainingData = remainingData
  }
}
```

### 2. Opaque data type

> In profile, the type must be omitted for now. Later[new Primitive](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/profile-spec.html#sec-Primitive-types) representing binary data will be added to Comlink Profile.

Reviewer: typo: Later<add space>[new Primitive] ...

```
name = "example"
version = "1.0.0"

usecase Example {
  input {
    binary
  }
}
```

### 3. Assigning to temp variable when altering BinaryData

> Comlink maps right now doesn't support Script expression as statement. Onlt workaround for now is to use variable assignement.

Reviewer: typo: Onlt -> Only

---

# Binary Data

Use `BinaryData` class in OneSDK to upload content by streaming bytes.

:::info

To use this feature, you will need OneSDK for NodeJS in version `2.2.0` or higher.

:::

The following interface is available in OneSDK, as well as in [Comlink Map's Script](https://superface.ai/docs/comlink/map#sec-Script):

```ts
export interface IBinaryData {
  peek(size?: number): Promise<Buffer | undefined>;
  getAllData(): Promise<Buffer>;
  chunkBy(chunkSize: number): AsyncIterable<Buffer>;
  toStream(): Readable;
}
```

If `BinaryData` instance is used as body or value in `FormData`, the content is streamed. This allows you to upload and work with big files.

Currently `BinaryData` can't be used as result of the use-case. If it is used as result an `UnexpectedError` is returned instead. If the content represented by `BinaryData` should be returned, calling `getAllData()` will read stream into `Buffer`, which is valid use-case result and is returned. Later streamed results support will be added for situation when the content is too big to load into memory.

## Comlink Map examples

In this section you will find example uses of `BinaryData` in Comlink maps.

> ### Send file in body

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sending a file as the body of a POST request
```

```
map SendFile {
  http POST "/resource" {
    request "application/octet-stream" {
      body = input.file
    }

    response 200 "text/plain" {
      map result body
    }
  }
}
```

### Send multiple files as FormData field alongside other fields
```
map SendFile {
  http POST "/resource" {
    request "multipart/form-data" {
      body {
        field = input.field
        file1 = input.file1
        file2 = input.file2
      }
    }

    response 200 "text/plain" {
      map result body
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Upload file by chunks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Uploading a file in chunks
```

```
profile = "example@1.0"
provider = "localhost"

map ChunkedUpload {
  uploadResults = call foreach(chunk of input.file.chunkBy(10)) Upload(chunk = chunk)

  return map result uploadResults
}

operation Upload {
  http POST "/upload/{args.uploadId}" {
    request "application/octet-stream" {
      body = args.chunk
    }

    response 200 "text/plain" {
      return true
    }

    response 500 "text/plain" {
      return false
    }
  }
}
```

### Read first bytes of file and then send it in body
```
map SendFile {
  firstTen = input.file.peek(10)

  contentType = firstTen.toString('ascii').toLowerCase().includes('pdf') ? 'application/pdf' : 'application/octet-stream'

  http POST "/resource" {
    request {
      headers {
        'content-type' = contentType
      }
      
      body = input.file

    response 200 "text/plain" {
      map result body
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Update BinaryData from Comlink Map

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating BinaryData from a Comlink Map
```

```
map Example {
  tmp = (input.file.name = input.filename)
  tmp = (input.file.mimetype = input.mimetype)
  
  http POST "/" {
    request "multipart/form-data" {
      body = {
        file: input.file
      }
    }
  
    response 200 {
      map result body
    }
  }
}
```

## OneSDK use example

```typescript
import { SuperfaceClient, BinaryData } from '@superfaceai/one-sdk';

const client = new SuperfaceClient();
const profile = await client.getProfile('example');

// for files
const result = await profile.getUseCase('Example').perform({
  binary: BinaryData.fromPath(pathToFile, { mimetype: 'text/plain', filename: 'example.txt' });

// or for Readable streams
const stream = getReadableStream();
const result = await profile.getUseCase('Example').perform({
  binary: BinaryData.fromStream(stream);
});
```

## Limitations

### 1. Asynchronous operations on BinaryData

> Current limitation for use in Comlink Map is that `peek`, `read` and `getAllData` methods are asynchronous. So, they can't be directly chained with function on [Buffer](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/buffer.html#class-buffer). Most likely `toString()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A current limitation of `BinaryData` use in Comlink Maps is that the `peek`, `read` and `getAllData` methods are all asynchronous. This means that they can't be directly chained with methods on [Buffer](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/buffer.html#class-buffer), such as `toString()`.
```

> To overcome this limitation, It must be first [set into variable](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/map-spec.html#sec-Set-Variables), so the interpreter resolves the Promise:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To overcome this limitation, `BinaryData` must first be [assigned to a variable](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/map-spec.html#sec-Set-Variables), so that the interpreter resolves the Promise:
```

```
map Example {
  firstBytes = input.binary.peek(10)
  data = input.binary.read(10)
  remainingData = input.binary.getAllData()

  map result {
    firstBytes = firstBytes
    data = data
   remainingData = remainingData
  }
}
```

### 2. Opaque data type

> In profile, the type must be omitted for now. Later,  [new Primitive](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/profile-spec.html#sec-Primitive-types) representing binary data will be added to Comlink Profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a Comlink profile, the type must be omitted for now. Later, a new [Primitive type](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/profile-spec.html#sec-Primitive-types) representing binary data will be added.
```

```
name = "example"
version = "1.0.0"

usecase Example {
  input {
    binary
  }
}
```

> ### 3. Assigning to temp variable when altering BinaryData

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Assigning to temporary variables when altering BinaryData
```

> Comlink maps right now doesn't support Script expression as statement. The only workaround for now is to use variable assignement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comlink maps right now don't support using Script expressions as statements. The only workaround for now is to use variable assignment.
```

---
slug: /comlink/reference/map/binary_data
displayed_sidebar: referenceSidebar
---

# Binary Data

Use the `BinaryData` class in OneSDK to upload content by streaming bytes.

:::info

To use this feature, you will need OneSDK for NodeJS at version `2.2.0` or higher.

:::

The following interface is available in OneSDK, as well as in [Comlink Map's Script](https://superface.ai/docs/comlink/map#sec-Script):

```ts
export interface IBinaryData {
  peek(size?: number): Promise<Buffer | undefined>;
  getAllData(): Promise<Buffer>;
  chunkBy(chunkSize: number): AsyncIterable<Buffer>;
  toStream(): Readable;
}
```

If a `BinaryData` instance is used as the body or value in `FormData`, the content is streamed. This allows you to upload and work with large files.

> Currently, `BinaryData` can't be used in the result of a use case. If it is present, an `UnexpectedError` is returned instead. You can use the `getAllData()` function to read and return the contents as a `Buffer`, which is valid to use in a use case result. Later, support for streamed results will be added for situations when the content is too big to load into memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, `BinaryData` can't be used in the result of a use case. If it is present, an `UnexpectedError` is returned instead. You can use the `getAllData()` function to read and return the contents as a `Buffer`, which is valid to use in a use case result. [Later](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js/issues/325), support for streamed results will be added for situations when the content is too big to load into memory.
```

// for files
const result = await profile.getUseCase('Example').perform({
  binary: BinaryData.fromPath(pathToFile, { mimetype: 'text/plain', filename: 'example.txt' });

// or for Readable streams
const stream = getReadableStream();
const result = await profile.getUseCase('Example').perform({
  binary: BinaryData.fromStream(stream);
});
```

## Limitations

### 1. Asynchronous operations on BinaryData

A current limitation of `BinaryData` use in Comlink Maps is that the `peek`, `read` and `getAllData` methods are all asynchronous. This means that they can't be directly chained with methods on [Buffer](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/buffer.html#class-buffer), such as `toString()`.

To overcome this limitation, `BinaryData` must first be [assigned to a variable](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/map-spec.html#sec-Set-Variables), so that the interpreter resolves the Promise:
```
map Example {
  firstBytes = input.binary.peek(10)
  data = input.binary.read(10)
  remainingData = input.binary.getAllData()

  map result {
    firstBytes = firstBytes
    data = data
   remainingData = remainingData
  }
}
```

### 2. Opaque data type

> In a Comlink profile, the type must be omitted for now. Later, a new [Primitive type](https://spec.superface.dev/latest/profile-spec.html#sec-Primitive-types) representing binary data will be added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a Comlink profile, the type must be omitted for now. [Later](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js/issues/325), a new [Primitive type](https://superface.ai/docs/comlink/profile#sec-Primitive-types) representing binary data will be added.
```
